docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/test/mockmvc.adoc, before:


[[test-mockmvc]]
== Spring MVC Test Integration

Spring Security provides comprehensive integration with https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/testing.html#spring-mvc-test-framework[Spring MVC Test]

[[test-mockmvc-setup]]
=== Setting Up MockMvc and Spring Security

In order to use Spring Security with Spring MVC Test it is necessary to add the Spring Security `FilterChainProxy` as a `Filter`.
It is also necessary to add Spring Security's `TestSecurityContextHolderPostProcessor` to support <<Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations,Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations>>.
This can be done using Spring Security's `SecurityMockMvcConfigurers.springSecurity()`.
For example:

NOTE: Spring Security's testing support requires spring-test-4.1.3.RELEASE or greater.

[source,java]
----

import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.setup.SecurityMockMvcConfigurers.*;

@RunWith(SpringJUnit4ClassRunner.class)
@ContextConfiguration
@WebAppConfiguration
public class CsrfShowcaseTests {

	@Autowired
	private WebApplicationContext context;

	private MockMvc mvc;

	@Before
	public void setup() {
		mvc = MockMvcBuilders
				.webAppContextSetup(context)
				.apply(springSecurity()) // <1>
				.build();
	}

...
----

<1> `SecurityMockMvcConfigurers.springSecurity()` will perform all of the initial setup we need to integrate Spring Security with Spring MVC Test

[[test-mockmvc-smmrpp]]
=== SecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors

Spring MVC Test provides a convenient interface called a `RequestPostProcessor` that can be used to modify a request.
Spring Security provides a number of `RequestPostProcessor` implementations that make testing easier.
In order to use Spring Security's `RequestPostProcessor` implementations ensure the following static import is used:

[source,java]
----
import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.request.SecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors.*;
----

[[test-mockmvc-csrf]]
==== Testing with CSRF Protection

When testing any non-safe HTTP methods and using Spring Security's CSRF protection, you must be sure to include a valid CSRF Token in the request.
To specify a valid CSRF token as a request parameter using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(post("/").with(csrf()))
----

If you like you can include CSRF token in the header instead:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(post("/").with(csrf().asHeader()))
----

You can also test providing an invalid CSRF token using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(post("/").with(csrf().useInvalidToken()))
----

[[test-mockmvc-securitycontextholder]]
==== Running a Test as a User in Spring MVC Test

It is often desirable to run tests as a specific user.
There are two simple ways of populating the user:

* <<Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with RequestPostProcessor,Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with RequestPostProcessor>>
* <<Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations,Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations>>

[[test-mockmvc-securitycontextholder-rpp]]
==== Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with RequestPostProcessor

There are a number of options available to associate a user to the current `HttpServletRequest`.
For example, the following will run as a user (which does not need to exist) with the username "user", the password "password", and the role "ROLE_USER":

[NOTE]
====
The support works by associating the user to the `HttpServletRequest`.
To associate the request to the `SecurityContextHolder` you need to ensure that the `SecurityContextPersistenceFilter` is associated with the `MockMvc` instance.
A few ways to do this are:

* Invoking <<test-mockmvc-setup,apply(springSecurity())>>
* Adding Spring Security's `FilterChainProxy` to `MockMvc`
* Manually adding `SecurityContextPersistenceFilter` to the `MockMvc` instance may make sense when using `MockMvcBuilders.standaloneSetup`
====

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(user("user")))
----

You can easily make customizations.
For example, the following will run as a user (which does not need to exist) with the username "admin", the password "pass", and the roles "ROLE_USER" and "ROLE_ADMIN".

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/admin").with(user("admin").password("pass").roles("USER","ADMIN")))
----

If you have a custom `UserDetails` that you would like to use, you can easily specify that as well.
For example, the following will use the specified `UserDetails` (which does not need to exist) to run with a `UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken` that has a principal of the specified `UserDetails`:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(user(userDetails)))
----

You can run as anonymous user using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(anonymous()))
----

This is especially useful if you are running with a default user and wish to execute a few requests as an anonymous user.

If you want a custom `Authentication` (which does not need to exist) you can do so using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(authentication(authentication)))
----

You can even customize the `SecurityContext` using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(securityContext(securityContext)))
----

We can also ensure to run as a specific user for every request by using ``MockMvcBuilders``'s default request.
For example, the following will run as a user (which does not need to exist) with the username "admin", the password "password", and the role "ROLE_ADMIN":

[source,java]
----
mvc = MockMvcBuilders
		.webAppContextSetup(context)
		.defaultRequest(get("/").with(user("user").roles("ADMIN")))
		.apply(springSecurity())
		.build();
----

If you find you are using the same user in many of your tests, it is recommended to move the user to a method.
For example, you can specify the following in your own class named `CustomSecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors`:

[source,java]
----
public static RequestPostProcessor rob() {
	return user("rob").roles("ADMIN");
}
----

Now you can perform a static import on `SecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors` and use that within your tests:

[source,java]
----
import static sample.CustomSecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors.*;

...

mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(rob()))
----

===== Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations

As an alternative to using a `RequestPostProcessor` to create your user, you can use annotations described in <<Testing Method Security>>.
For example, the following will run the test with the user with username "user", password "password", and role "ROLE_USER":

[source,java]
----
@Test
@WithMockUser
public void requestProtectedUrlWithUser() throws Exception {
mvc
		.perform(get("/"))
		...
}
----

Alternatively, the following will run the test with the user with username "user", password "password", and role "ROLE_ADMIN":

[source,java]
----
@Test
@WithMockUser(roles="ADMIN")
public void requestProtectedUrlWithUser() throws Exception {
mvc
		.perform(get("/"))
		...
}
----

==== Testing HTTP Basic Authentication

While it has always been possible to authenticate with HTTP Basic, it was a bit tedious to remember the header name, format, and encode the values.
Now this can be done using Spring Security's `httpBasic` `RequestPostProcessor`.
For example, the snippet below:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(httpBasic("user","password")))
----

will attempt to use HTTP Basic to authenticate a user with the username "user" and the password "password" by ensuring the following header is populated on the HTTP Request:

[source,text]
----
Authorization: Basic dXNlcjpwYXNzd29yZA==
----

=== SecurityMockMvcRequestBuilders

Spring MVC Test also provides a `RequestBuilder` interface that can be used to create the `MockHttpServletRequest` used in your test.
Spring Security provides a few `RequestBuilder` implementations that can be used to make testing easier.
In order to use Spring Security's `RequestBuilder` implementations ensure the following static import is used:

[source,java]
----
import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.request.SecurityMockMvcRequestBuilders.*;
----

==== Testing Form Based Authentication

You can easily create a request to test a form based authentication using Spring Security's testing support.
For example, the following will submit a POST to "/login" with the username "user", the password "password", and a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin())
----

It is easy to customize the request.
For example, the following will submit a POST to "/auth" with the username "admin", the password "pass", and a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin("/auth").user("admin").password("pass"))
----

We can also customize the parameters names that the username and password are included on.
For example, this is the above request modified to include the username on the HTTP parameter "u" and the password on the HTTP parameter "p".

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin("/auth").user("u","admin").password("p","pass"))
----

[[test-logout]]
==== Testing Logout

While fairly trivial using standard Spring MVC Test, you can use Spring Security's testing support to make testing log out easier.
For example, the following will submit a POST to "/logout" with a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(logout())
----

You can also customize the URL to post to.
For example, the snippet below will submit a POST to "/signout" with a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(logout("/signout"))
----

=== SecurityMockMvcResultMatchers

At times it is desirable to make various security related assertions about a request.
To accommodate this need, Spring Security Test support implements Spring MVC Test's `ResultMatcher` interface.
In order to use Spring Security's `ResultMatcher` implementations ensure the following static import is used:

[source,java]
----
import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.response.SecurityMockMvcResultMatchers.*;
----

==== Unauthenticated Assertion

At times it may be valuable to assert that there is no authenticated user associated with the result of a `MockMvc` invocation.
For example, you might want to test submitting an invalid username and password and verify that no user is authenticated.
You can easily do this with Spring Security's testing support using something like the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().password("invalid"))
	.andExpect(unauthenticated());
----

==== Authenticated Assertion

It is often times that we must assert that an authenticated user exists.
For example, we may want to verify that we authenticated successfully.
We could verify that a form based login was successful with the following snippet of code:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin())
	.andExpect(authenticated());
----

If we wanted to assert the roles of the user, we could refine our previous code as shown below:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().user("admin"))
	.andExpect(authenticated().withRoles("USER","ADMIN"));
----

Alternatively, we could verify the username:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().user("admin"))
	.andExpect(authenticated().withUsername("admin"));
----

We can also combine the assertions:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().user("admin").roles("USER","ADMIN"))
	.andExpect(authenticated().withUsername("admin"));
----

We can also make arbitrary assertions on the authentication

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin())
	.andExpect(authenticated().withAuthentication(auth ->
		assertThat(auth).isInstanceOf(UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken.class)));
----

Commit message:

Full featured OAuth2 resource-sever tests-lib:
  * mocked authentications for JWTs, access-tokens and OpenID tokens (OidcId)
  * testing using annotations, MockMvc request post-processors or WebTestClient mutators

docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/test/mockmvc.adoc, after:


[[test-mockmvc]]
== Spring MVC Test Integration

Spring Security provides comprehensive integration with https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/testing.html#spring-mvc-test-framework[Spring MVC Test]

[[test-mockmvc-setup]]
=== Setting Up MockMvc and Spring Security

In order to use Spring Security with Spring MVC Test it is necessary to add the Spring Security `FilterChainProxy` as a `Filter`.
It is also necessary to add Spring Security's `TestSecurityContextHolderPostProcessor` to support <<Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations,Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations>>.
This can be done using Spring Security's `SecurityMockMvcConfigurers.springSecurity()`.
For example:

NOTE: Spring Security's testing support requires spring-test-4.1.3.RELEASE or greater.

[source,java]
----

import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.setup.SecurityMockMvcConfigurers.*;

@RunWith(SpringJUnit4ClassRunner.class)
@ContextConfiguration
@WebAppConfiguration
public class CsrfShowcaseTests {

	@Autowired
	private WebApplicationContext context;

	private MockMvc mvc;

	@Before
	public void setup() {
		mvc = MockMvcBuilders
				.webAppContextSetup(context)
				.apply(springSecurity()) // <1>
				.build();
	}

...
----

<1> `SecurityMockMvcConfigurers.springSecurity()` will perform all of the initial setup we need to integrate Spring Security with Spring MVC Test

[[test-mockmvc-smmrpp]]
=== SecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors

Spring MVC Test provides a convenient interface called a `RequestPostProcessor` that can be used to modify a request.
Spring Security provides a number of `RequestPostProcessor` implementations that make testing easier.
In order to use Spring Security's `RequestPostProcessor` implementations ensure the following static import is used:

[source,java]
----
import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.request.SecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors.*;
----

[[test-mockmvc-csrf]]
==== Testing with CSRF Protection

When testing any non-safe HTTP methods and using Spring Security's CSRF protection, you must be sure to include a valid CSRF Token in the request.
To specify a valid CSRF token as a request parameter using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(post("/").with(csrf()))
----

If you like you can include CSRF token in the header instead:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(post("/").with(csrf().asHeader()))
----

You can also test providing an invalid CSRF token using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(post("/").with(csrf().useInvalidToken()))
----

[[test-mockmvc-securitycontextholder]]
==== Running a Test as a User in Spring MVC Test

It is often desirable to run tests as a specific user.
There are two simple ways of populating the user:

* <<Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with RequestPostProcessor,Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with RequestPostProcessor>>
* <<Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations,Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations>>

[[test-mockmvc-securitycontextholder-rpp]]
===== Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with RequestPostProcessor

There are a number of options available to associate a user to the current `HttpServletRequest`.
For example, the following will run as a user (which does not need to exist) with the username "user", the password "password", and the role "ROLE_USER":

[NOTE]
====
The support works by associating the user to the `HttpServletRequest`.
To associate the request to the `SecurityContextHolder` you need to ensure that the `SecurityContextPersistenceFilter` is associated with the `MockMvc` instance.
A few ways to do this are:

* Invoking <<test-mockmvc-setup,apply(springSecurity())>>
* Adding Spring Security's `FilterChainProxy` to `MockMvc`
* Manually adding `SecurityContextPersistenceFilter` to the `MockMvc` instance may make sense when using `MockMvcBuilders.standaloneSetup`
====

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(user("user")))
----

You can easily make customizations.
For example, the following will run as a user (which does not need to exist) with the username "admin", the password "pass", and the roles "ROLE_USER" and "ROLE_ADMIN".

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/admin").with(user("admin").password("pass").roles("USER","ADMIN")))
----

If you have a custom `UserDetails` that you would like to use, you can easily specify that as well.
For example, the following will use the specified `UserDetails` (which does not need to exist) to run with a `UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken` that has a principal of the specified `UserDetails`:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(user(userDetails)))
----

You can run as anonymous user using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(anonymous()))
----

This is especially useful if you are running with a default user and wish to execute a few requests as an anonymous user.

If you want a custom `Authentication` (which does not need to exist) you can do so using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(authentication(authentication)))
----

You can even customize the `SecurityContext` using the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(securityContext(securityContext)))
----

We can also ensure to run as a specific user for every request by using ``MockMvcBuilders``'s default request.
For example, the following will run as a user (which does not need to exist) with the username "admin", the password "password", and the role "ROLE_ADMIN":

[source,java]
----
mvc = MockMvcBuilders
		.webAppContextSetup(context)
		.defaultRequest(get("/").with(user("user").roles("ADMIN")))
		.apply(springSecurity())
		.build();
----

If you find you are using the same user in many of your tests, it is recommended to move the user to a method.
For example, you can specify the following in your own class named `CustomSecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors`:

[source,java]
----
public static RequestPostProcessor rob() {
	return user("rob").roles("ADMIN");
}
----

Now you can perform a static import on `SecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors` and use that within your tests:

[source,java]
----
import static sample.CustomSecurityMockMvcRequestPostProcessors.*;

...

mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(rob()))
----

===== Running as a User in Spring MVC Test with Annotations

As an alternative to using a `RequestPostProcessor` to create your user, you can use annotations described in <<Testing Method Security>>.
For example, the following will run the test with the user with username "user", password "password", and role "ROLE_USER":

[source,java]
----
@Test
@WithMockUser
public void requestProtectedUrlWithUser() throws Exception {
mvc
		.perform(get("/"))
		...
}
----

Alternatively, the following will run the test with the user with username "user", password "password", and role "ROLE_ADMIN":

[source,java]
----
@Test
@WithMockUser(roles="ADMIN")
public void requestProtectedUrlWithUser() throws Exception {
mvc
		.perform(get("/"))
		...
}
----

==== Testing HTTP Basic Authentication

While it has always been possible to authenticate with HTTP Basic, it was a bit tedious to remember the header name, format, and encode the values.
Now this can be done using Spring Security's `httpBasic` `RequestPostProcessor`.
For example, the snippet below:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(httpBasic("user","password")))
----

will attempt to use HTTP Basic to authenticate a user with the username "user" and the password "password" by ensuring the following header is populated on the HTTP Request:

[source,text]
----
Authorization: Basic dXNlcjpwYXNzd29yZA==
----

=== SecurityMockMvcRequestBuilders

Spring MVC Test also provides a `RequestBuilder` interface that can be used to create the `MockHttpServletRequest` used in your test.
Spring Security provides a few `RequestBuilder` implementations that can be used to make testing easier.
In order to use Spring Security's `RequestBuilder` implementations ensure the following static import is used:

[source,java]
----
import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.request.SecurityMockMvcRequestBuilders.*;
----

==== Testing Form Based Authentication

You can easily create a request to test a form based authentication using Spring Security's testing support.
For example, the following will submit a POST to "/login" with the username "user", the password "password", and a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin())
----

It is easy to customize the request.
For example, the following will submit a POST to "/auth" with the username "admin", the password "pass", and a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin("/auth").user("admin").password("pass"))
----

We can also customize the parameters names that the username and password are included on.
For example, this is the above request modified to include the username on the HTTP parameter "u" and the password on the HTTP parameter "p".

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin("/auth").user("u","admin").password("p","pass"))
----

[[test-logout]]
==== Testing Logout

While fairly trivial using standard Spring MVC Test, you can use Spring Security's testing support to make testing log out easier.
For example, the following will submit a POST to "/logout" with a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(logout())
----

You can also customize the URL to post to.
For example, the snippet below will submit a POST to "/signout" with a valid CSRF token:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(logout("/signout"))
----

==== Testing OAUth2 resource servers

In addition to mock user authentication, it is possible to easily mock three different kind of OAuth2 authentication:
  * `jwt()` populates SecurityContext with a `JwtAuthenticationToken`, principal being a `Jwt`
  * `accessToken()` populates SecurityContext with an `OAuth2IntrospectionAuthenticationToken`, principal being an `OAuth2AccessToken`
  * `oidcId()` populates SecurityContext with an `OAuth2LoginAuthenticationToken`, principal being a `DefaultOidcUser`

Each of above are highly configurable through flow APIs and are used just as other `MockMvc` `RequestPostProcessor`s:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(jwt()))
----
[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(accessToken().name("ch4mpy"))
----
[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(get("/").with(oidcId().authority("SCOPE_message:read"))
----

=== SecurityMockMvcResultMatchers

At times it is desirable to make various security related assertions about a request.
To accommodate this need, Spring Security Test support implements Spring MVC Test's `ResultMatcher` interface.
In order to use Spring Security's `ResultMatcher` implementations ensure the following static import is used:

[source,java]
----
import static org.springframework.security.test.web.servlet.response.SecurityMockMvcResultMatchers.*;
----

==== Unauthenticated Assertion

At times it may be valuable to assert that there is no authenticated user associated with the result of a `MockMvc` invocation.
For example, you might want to test submitting an invalid username and password and verify that no user is authenticated.
You can easily do this with Spring Security's testing support using something like the following:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().password("invalid"))
	.andExpect(unauthenticated());
----

==== Authenticated Assertion

It is often times that we must assert that an authenticated user exists.
For example, we may want to verify that we authenticated successfully.
We could verify that a form based login was successful with the following snippet of code:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin())
	.andExpect(authenticated());
----

If we wanted to assert the roles of the user, we could refine our previous code as shown below:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().user("admin"))
	.andExpect(authenticated().withRoles("USER","ADMIN"));
----

Alternatively, we could verify the username:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().user("admin"))
	.andExpect(authenticated().withUsername("admin"));
----

We can also combine the assertions:

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin().user("admin").roles("USER","ADMIN"))
	.andExpect(authenticated().withUsername("admin"));
----

We can also make arbitrary assertions on the authentication

[source,java]
----
mvc
	.perform(formLogin())
	.andExpect(authenticated().withAuthentication(auth ->
		assertThat(auth).isInstanceOf(UsernamePasswordAuthenticationToken.class)));
----
