docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/additional-topics/oauth2.adoc, before:

[[oauth2login-advanced]]
== OAuth 2.0 Login -- Advanced Configuration

`HttpSecurity.oauth2Login()` provides a number of configuration options for customizing OAuth 2.0 Login.
The main configuration options are grouped into their protocol endpoint counterparts.

For example, `oauth2Login().authorizationEndpoint()` allows configuring the _Authorization Endpoint_, whereas `oauth2Login().tokenEndpoint()` allows configuring the _Token Endpoint_.

The following code shows an example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.authorizationEndpoint()
					...
				.redirectionEndpoint()
					...
				.tokenEndpoint()
					...
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					...
	}
}
----

The main goal of the `oauth2Login()` DSL was to closely align with the naming, as defined in the specifications.

The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework defines the https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-3[Protocol Endpoints] as follows:

The authorization process utilizes two authorization server endpoints (HTTP resources):

* Authorization Endpoint: Used by the client to obtain authorization from the resource owner via user-agent redirection.
* Token Endpoint: Used by the client to exchange an authorization grant for an access token, typically with client authentication.

As well as one client endpoint:

* Redirection Endpoint: Used by the authorization server to return responses containing authorization credentials to the client via the resource owner user-agent.

The OpenID Connect Core 1.0 specification defines the http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#UserInfo[UserInfo Endpoint] as follows:

The UserInfo Endpoint is an OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource that returns claims about the authenticated end-user.
To obtain the requested claims about the end-user, the client makes a request to the UserInfo Endpoint by using an access token obtained through OpenID Connect Authentication.
These claims are normally represented by a JSON object that contains a collection of name-value pairs for the claims.

The following code shows the complete configuration options available for the `oauth2Login()` DSL:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.clientRegistrationRepository(this.clientRegistrationRepository())
				.authorizedClientRepository(this.authorizedClientRepository())
				.authorizedClientService(this.authorizedClientService())
				.loginPage("/login")
				.authorizationEndpoint()
					.baseUri(this.authorizationRequestBaseUri())
					.authorizationRequestRepository(this.authorizationRequestRepository())
					.authorizationRequestResolver(this.authorizationRequestResolver())
					.and()
				.redirectionEndpoint()
					.baseUri(this.authorizationResponseBaseUri())
					.and()
				.tokenEndpoint()
					.accessTokenResponseClient(this.accessTokenResponseClient())
					.and()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.userAuthoritiesMapper(this.userAuthoritiesMapper())
					.userService(this.oauth2UserService())
					.oidcUserService(this.oidcUserService())
					.customUserType(GitHubOAuth2User.class, "github");
	}
}
----

The following sections go into more detail on each of the configuration options available:

* <<oauth2login-advanced-login-page>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-redirection-endpoint>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-userinfo-endpoint>>


[[oauth2login-advanced-login-page]]
=== OAuth 2.0 Login Page

By default, the OAuth 2.0 Login Page is auto-generated by the `DefaultLoginPageGeneratingFilter`.
The default login page shows each configured OAuth Client with its `ClientRegistration.clientName` as a link, which is capable of initiating the Authorization Request (or OAuth 2.0 Login).

The link's destination for each OAuth Client defaults to the following:

`OAuth2AuthorizationRequestRedirectFilter.DEFAULT_AUTHORIZATION_REQUEST_BASE_URI` + "/{registrationId}"

The following line shows an example:

[source,html]
----
<a href="/oauth2/authorization/google">Google</a>
----

To override the default login page, configure `oauth2Login().loginPage()` and (optionally) `oauth2Login().authorizationEndpoint().baseUri()`.

The following listing shows an example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.loginPage("/login/oauth2")
				...
				.authorizationEndpoint()
					.baseUri("/login/oauth2/authorization")
					....
	}
}
----

[IMPORTANT]
You need to provide a `@Controller` with a `@RequestMapping("/login/oauth2")` that is capable of rendering the custom login page.

[TIP]
====
As noted earlier, configuring `oauth2Login().authorizationEndpoint().baseUri()` is optional.
However, if you choose to customize it, ensure the link to each OAuth Client matches the `authorizationEndpoint().baseUri()`.

The following line shows an example:

[source,html]
----
<a href="/login/oauth2/authorization/google">Google</a>
----
====


[[oauth2login-advanced-redirection-endpoint]]
=== Redirection Endpoint

The Redirection Endpoint is used by the Authorization Server for returning the Authorization Response (which contains the authorization credentials) to the client via the Resource Owner user-agent.

[TIP]
OAuth 2.0 Login leverages the Authorization Code Grant.
Therefore, the authorization credential is the authorization code.

The default Authorization Response `baseUri` (redirection endpoint) is `*/login/oauth2/code/**`, which is defined in `OAuth2LoginAuthenticationFilter.DEFAULT_FILTER_PROCESSES_URI`.

If you would like to customize the Authorization Response `baseUri`, configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.redirectionEndpoint()
					.baseUri("/login/oauth2/callback/*")
					....
	}
}
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
You also need to ensure the `ClientRegistration.redirectUriTemplate` matches the custom Authorization Response `baseUri`.

The following listing shows an example:

[source,java]
----
return CommonOAuth2Provider.GOOGLE.getBuilder("google")
	.clientId("google-client-id")
	.clientSecret("google-client-secret")
	.redirectUriTemplate("{baseUrl}/login/oauth2/callback/{registrationId}")
	.build();
----
====


[[oauth2login-advanced-userinfo-endpoint]]
=== UserInfo Endpoint

The UserInfo Endpoint includes a number of configuration options, as described in the following sub-sections:

* <<oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities, Mapping User Authorities>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-custom-user, Configuring a Custom OAuth2User>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-oauth2-user-service, OAuth 2.0 UserService>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-oidc-user-service, OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService>>


[[oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities]]
==== Mapping User Authorities

After the user successfully authenticates with the OAuth 2.0 Provider, the `OAuth2User.getAuthorities()` (or `OidcUser.getAuthorities()`) may be mapped to a new set of `GrantedAuthority` instances, which will be supplied to `OAuth2AuthenticationToken` when completing the authentication.

[TIP]
`OAuth2AuthenticationToken.getAuthorities()` is used for authorizing requests, such as in `hasRole('USER')` or `hasRole('ADMIN')`.

There are a couple of options to choose from when mapping user authorities:

* <<oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-grantedauthoritiesmapper, Using a GrantedAuthoritiesMapper>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-oauth2userservice, Delegation-based strategy with OAuth2UserService>>


[[oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-grantedauthoritiesmapper]]
===== Using a GrantedAuthoritiesMapper

Provide an implementation of `GrantedAuthoritiesMapper` and configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.userAuthoritiesMapper(this.userAuthoritiesMapper())
					...
	}

	private GrantedAuthoritiesMapper userAuthoritiesMapper() {
		return (authorities) -> {
			Set<GrantedAuthority> mappedAuthorities = new HashSet<>();

			authorities.forEach(authority -> {
				if (OidcUserAuthority.class.isInstance(authority)) {
					OidcUserAuthority oidcUserAuthority = (OidcUserAuthority)authority;

					OidcIdToken idToken = oidcUserAuthority.getIdToken();
					OidcUserInfo userInfo = oidcUserAuthority.getUserInfo();

					// Map the claims found in idToken and/or userInfo
					// to one or more GrantedAuthority's and add it to mappedAuthorities

				} else if (OAuth2UserAuthority.class.isInstance(authority)) {
					OAuth2UserAuthority oauth2UserAuthority = (OAuth2UserAuthority)authority;

					Map<String, Object> userAttributes = oauth2UserAuthority.getAttributes();

					// Map the attributes found in userAttributes
					// to one or more GrantedAuthority's and add it to mappedAuthorities

				}
			});

			return mappedAuthorities;
		};
	}
}
----

Alternatively, you may register a `GrantedAuthoritiesMapper` `@Bean` to have it automatically applied to the configuration, as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http.oauth2Login();
	}

	@Bean
	public GrantedAuthoritiesMapper userAuthoritiesMapper() {
		...
	}
}
----


[[oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-oauth2userservice]]
===== Delegation-based strategy with OAuth2UserService

This strategy is advanced compared to using a `GrantedAuthoritiesMapper`, however, it's also more flexible as it gives you access to the `OAuth2UserRequest` and `OAuth2User` (when using an OAuth 2.0 UserService) or `OidcUserRequest` and `OidcUser` (when using an OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService).

The `OAuth2UserRequest` (and `OidcUserRequest`) provides you access to the associated `OAuth2AccessToken`, which is very useful in the cases where the _delegator_ needs to fetch authority information from a protected resource before it can map the custom authorities for the user.

The following example shows how to implement and configure a delegation-based strategy using an OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.oidcUserService(this.oidcUserService())
					...
	}

	private OAuth2UserService<OidcUserRequest, OidcUser> oidcUserService() {
		final OidcUserService delegate = new OidcUserService();

		return (userRequest) -> {
			// Delegate to the default implementation for loading a user
			OidcUser oidcUser = delegate.loadUser(userRequest);

			OAuth2AccessToken accessToken = userRequest.getAccessToken();
			Set<GrantedAuthority> mappedAuthorities = new HashSet<>();

			// TODO
			// 1) Fetch the authority information from the protected resource using accessToken
			// 2) Map the authority information to one or more GrantedAuthority's and add it to mappedAuthorities

			// 3) Create a copy of oidcUser but use the mappedAuthorities instead
			oidcUser = new DefaultOidcUser(mappedAuthorities, oidcUser.getIdToken(), oidcUser.getUserInfo());

			return oidcUser;
		};
	}
}
----


[[oauth2login-advanced-custom-user]]
==== Configuring a Custom OAuth2User

`CustomUserTypesOAuth2UserService` is an implementation of an `OAuth2UserService` that provides support for custom `OAuth2User` types.

If the default implementation (`DefaultOAuth2User`) does not suit your needs, you can define your own implementation of `OAuth2User`.

The following code demonstrates how you would register a custom `OAuth2User` type for GitHub:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.customUserType(GitHubOAuth2User.class, "github")
					...
	}
}
----

The following code shows an example of a custom `OAuth2User` type for GitHub:

[source,java]
----
public class GitHubOAuth2User implements OAuth2User {
	private List<GrantedAuthority> authorities =
		AuthorityUtils.createAuthorityList("ROLE_USER");
	private Map<String, Object> attributes;
	private String id;
	private String name;
	private String login;
	private String email;

	@Override
	public Collection<? extends GrantedAuthority> getAuthorities() {
		return this.authorities;
	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, Object> getAttributes() {
		if (this.attributes == null) {
			this.attributes = new HashMap<>();
			this.attributes.put("id", this.getId());
			this.attributes.put("name", this.getName());
			this.attributes.put("login", this.getLogin());
			this.attributes.put("email", this.getEmail());
		}
		return attributes;
	}

	public String getId() {
		return this.id;
	}

	public void setId(String id) {
		this.id = id;
	}

	@Override
	public String getName() {
		return this.name;
	}

	public void setName(String name) {
		this.name = name;
	}

	public String getLogin() {
		return this.login;
	}

	public void setLogin(String login) {
		this.login = login;
	}

	public String getEmail() {
		return this.email;
	}

	public void setEmail(String email) {
		this.email = email;
	}
}
----

[TIP]
`id`, `name`, `login`, and `email` are attributes returned in GitHub's UserInfo Response.
For detailed information returned from the UserInfo Endpoint, see the API documentation
for https://developer.github.com/v3/users/#get-the-authenticated-user["Get the authenticated user"].


[[oauth2login-advanced-oauth2-user-service]]
==== OAuth 2.0 UserService

`DefaultOAuth2UserService` is an implementation of an `OAuth2UserService` that supports standard OAuth 2.0 Provider's.

[NOTE]
`OAuth2UserService` obtains the user attributes of the end-user (the resource owner) from the UserInfo Endpoint (by using the access token granted to the client during the authorization flow) and returns an `AuthenticatedPrincipal` in the form of an `OAuth2User`.

`DefaultOAuth2UserService` uses a `RestOperations` when requesting the user attributes at the UserInfo Endpoint.

If you need to customize the pre-processing of the UserInfo Request, you can provide `DefaultOAuth2UserService.setRequestEntityConverter()` with a custom `Converter<OAuth2UserRequest, RequestEntity<?>>`.
The default implementation `OAuth2UserRequestEntityConverter` builds a `RequestEntity` representation of a UserInfo Request that sets the `OAuth2AccessToken` in the `Authorization` header by default.

On the other end, if you need to customize the post-handling of the UserInfo Response, you will need to provide `DefaultOAuth2UserService.setRestOperations()` with a custom configured `RestOperations`.
The default `RestOperations` is configured as follows:

[source,java]
----
RestTemplate restTemplate = new RestTemplate();
restTemplate.setErrorHandler(new OAuth2ErrorResponseErrorHandler());
----

`OAuth2ErrorResponseErrorHandler` is a `ResponseErrorHandler` that can handle an OAuth 2.0 Error (400 Bad Request).
It uses an `OAuth2ErrorHttpMessageConverter` for converting the OAuth 2.0 Error parameters to an `OAuth2Error`.

Whether you customize `DefaultOAuth2UserService` or provide your own implementation of `OAuth2UserService`, you'll need to configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.userService(this.oauth2UserService())
					...
	}

	private OAuth2UserService<OAuth2UserRequest, OAuth2User> oauth2UserService() {
		...
	}
}
----


[[oauth2login-advanced-oidc-user-service]]
==== OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService

`OidcUserService` is an implementation of an `OAuth2UserService` that supports OpenID Connect 1.0 Provider's.

The `OidcUserService` leverages the `DefaultOAuth2UserService` when requesting the user attributes at the UserInfo Endpoint.

If you need to customize the pre-processing of the UserInfo Request and/or the post-handling of the UserInfo Response, you will need to provide `OidcUserService.setOauth2UserService()` with a custom configured `DefaultOAuth2UserService`.

Whether you customize `OidcUserService` or provide your own implementation of `OAuth2UserService` for OpenID Connect 1.0 Provider's, you'll need to configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.oidcUserService(this.oidcUserService())
					...
	}

	private OAuth2UserService<OidcUserRequest, OidcUser> oidcUserService() {
		...
	}
}
----

Commit message:

Clarify default OAuth 2.0 login page requirements

docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/additional-topics/oauth2.adoc, after:

[[oauth2login-advanced]]
== OAuth 2.0 Login -- Advanced Configuration

`HttpSecurity.oauth2Login()` provides a number of configuration options for customizing OAuth 2.0 Login.
The main configuration options are grouped into their protocol endpoint counterparts.

For example, `oauth2Login().authorizationEndpoint()` allows configuring the _Authorization Endpoint_, whereas `oauth2Login().tokenEndpoint()` allows configuring the _Token Endpoint_.

The following code shows an example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.authorizationEndpoint()
					...
				.redirectionEndpoint()
					...
				.tokenEndpoint()
					...
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					...
	}
}
----

The main goal of the `oauth2Login()` DSL was to closely align with the naming, as defined in the specifications.

The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework defines the https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-3[Protocol Endpoints] as follows:

The authorization process utilizes two authorization server endpoints (HTTP resources):

* Authorization Endpoint: Used by the client to obtain authorization from the resource owner via user-agent redirection.
* Token Endpoint: Used by the client to exchange an authorization grant for an access token, typically with client authentication.

As well as one client endpoint:

* Redirection Endpoint: Used by the authorization server to return responses containing authorization credentials to the client via the resource owner user-agent.

The OpenID Connect Core 1.0 specification defines the http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#UserInfo[UserInfo Endpoint] as follows:

The UserInfo Endpoint is an OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource that returns claims about the authenticated end-user.
To obtain the requested claims about the end-user, the client makes a request to the UserInfo Endpoint by using an access token obtained through OpenID Connect Authentication.
These claims are normally represented by a JSON object that contains a collection of name-value pairs for the claims.

The following code shows the complete configuration options available for the `oauth2Login()` DSL:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.clientRegistrationRepository(this.clientRegistrationRepository())
				.authorizedClientRepository(this.authorizedClientRepository())
				.authorizedClientService(this.authorizedClientService())
				.loginPage("/login")
				.authorizationEndpoint()
					.baseUri(this.authorizationRequestBaseUri())
					.authorizationRequestRepository(this.authorizationRequestRepository())
					.authorizationRequestResolver(this.authorizationRequestResolver())
					.and()
				.redirectionEndpoint()
					.baseUri(this.authorizationResponseBaseUri())
					.and()
				.tokenEndpoint()
					.accessTokenResponseClient(this.accessTokenResponseClient())
					.and()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.userAuthoritiesMapper(this.userAuthoritiesMapper())
					.userService(this.oauth2UserService())
					.oidcUserService(this.oidcUserService())
					.customUserType(GitHubOAuth2User.class, "github");
	}
}
----

The following sections go into more detail on each of the configuration options available:

* <<oauth2login-advanced-login-page>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-redirection-endpoint>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-userinfo-endpoint>>


[[oauth2login-advanced-login-page]]
=== OAuth 2.0 Login Page

By default, the OAuth 2.0 Login Page is auto-generated by the `DefaultLoginPageGeneratingFilter`.
The default login page shows each configured OAuth Client with its `ClientRegistration.clientName` as a link, which is capable of initiating the Authorization Request (or OAuth 2.0 Login).

[NOTE]
In order for `DefaultLoginPageGeneratingFilter` to show links for configured OAuth Clients, the registered `ClientRegistrationRepository` needs to also implement `Iterable<ClientRegistration>`.
See `InMemoryClientRegistrationRepository` for reference.

The link's destination for each OAuth Client defaults to the following:

`OAuth2AuthorizationRequestRedirectFilter.DEFAULT_AUTHORIZATION_REQUEST_BASE_URI` + "/{registrationId}"

The following line shows an example:

[source,html]
----
<a href="/oauth2/authorization/google">Google</a>
----

To override the default login page, configure `oauth2Login().loginPage()` and (optionally) `oauth2Login().authorizationEndpoint().baseUri()`.

The following listing shows an example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.loginPage("/login/oauth2")
				...
				.authorizationEndpoint()
					.baseUri("/login/oauth2/authorization")
					....
	}
}
----

[IMPORTANT]
You need to provide a `@Controller` with a `@RequestMapping("/login/oauth2")` that is capable of rendering the custom login page.

[TIP]
====
As noted earlier, configuring `oauth2Login().authorizationEndpoint().baseUri()` is optional.
However, if you choose to customize it, ensure the link to each OAuth Client matches the `authorizationEndpoint().baseUri()`.

The following line shows an example:

[source,html]
----
<a href="/login/oauth2/authorization/google">Google</a>
----
====


[[oauth2login-advanced-redirection-endpoint]]
=== Redirection Endpoint

The Redirection Endpoint is used by the Authorization Server for returning the Authorization Response (which contains the authorization credentials) to the client via the Resource Owner user-agent.

[TIP]
OAuth 2.0 Login leverages the Authorization Code Grant.
Therefore, the authorization credential is the authorization code.

The default Authorization Response `baseUri` (redirection endpoint) is `*/login/oauth2/code/**`, which is defined in `OAuth2LoginAuthenticationFilter.DEFAULT_FILTER_PROCESSES_URI`.

If you would like to customize the Authorization Response `baseUri`, configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.redirectionEndpoint()
					.baseUri("/login/oauth2/callback/*")
					....
	}
}
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
You also need to ensure the `ClientRegistration.redirectUriTemplate` matches the custom Authorization Response `baseUri`.

The following listing shows an example:

[source,java]
----
return CommonOAuth2Provider.GOOGLE.getBuilder("google")
	.clientId("google-client-id")
	.clientSecret("google-client-secret")
	.redirectUriTemplate("{baseUrl}/login/oauth2/callback/{registrationId}")
	.build();
----
====


[[oauth2login-advanced-userinfo-endpoint]]
=== UserInfo Endpoint

The UserInfo Endpoint includes a number of configuration options, as described in the following sub-sections:

* <<oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities, Mapping User Authorities>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-custom-user, Configuring a Custom OAuth2User>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-oauth2-user-service, OAuth 2.0 UserService>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-oidc-user-service, OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService>>


[[oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities]]
==== Mapping User Authorities

After the user successfully authenticates with the OAuth 2.0 Provider, the `OAuth2User.getAuthorities()` (or `OidcUser.getAuthorities()`) may be mapped to a new set of `GrantedAuthority` instances, which will be supplied to `OAuth2AuthenticationToken` when completing the authentication.

[TIP]
`OAuth2AuthenticationToken.getAuthorities()` is used for authorizing requests, such as in `hasRole('USER')` or `hasRole('ADMIN')`.

There are a couple of options to choose from when mapping user authorities:

* <<oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-grantedauthoritiesmapper, Using a GrantedAuthoritiesMapper>>
* <<oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-oauth2userservice, Delegation-based strategy with OAuth2UserService>>


[[oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-grantedauthoritiesmapper]]
===== Using a GrantedAuthoritiesMapper

Provide an implementation of `GrantedAuthoritiesMapper` and configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.userAuthoritiesMapper(this.userAuthoritiesMapper())
					...
	}

	private GrantedAuthoritiesMapper userAuthoritiesMapper() {
		return (authorities) -> {
			Set<GrantedAuthority> mappedAuthorities = new HashSet<>();

			authorities.forEach(authority -> {
				if (OidcUserAuthority.class.isInstance(authority)) {
					OidcUserAuthority oidcUserAuthority = (OidcUserAuthority)authority;

					OidcIdToken idToken = oidcUserAuthority.getIdToken();
					OidcUserInfo userInfo = oidcUserAuthority.getUserInfo();

					// Map the claims found in idToken and/or userInfo
					// to one or more GrantedAuthority's and add it to mappedAuthorities

				} else if (OAuth2UserAuthority.class.isInstance(authority)) {
					OAuth2UserAuthority oauth2UserAuthority = (OAuth2UserAuthority)authority;

					Map<String, Object> userAttributes = oauth2UserAuthority.getAttributes();

					// Map the attributes found in userAttributes
					// to one or more GrantedAuthority's and add it to mappedAuthorities

				}
			});

			return mappedAuthorities;
		};
	}
}
----

Alternatively, you may register a `GrantedAuthoritiesMapper` `@Bean` to have it automatically applied to the configuration, as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http.oauth2Login();
	}

	@Bean
	public GrantedAuthoritiesMapper userAuthoritiesMapper() {
		...
	}
}
----


[[oauth2login-advanced-map-authorities-oauth2userservice]]
===== Delegation-based strategy with OAuth2UserService

This strategy is advanced compared to using a `GrantedAuthoritiesMapper`, however, it's also more flexible as it gives you access to the `OAuth2UserRequest` and `OAuth2User` (when using an OAuth 2.0 UserService) or `OidcUserRequest` and `OidcUser` (when using an OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService).

The `OAuth2UserRequest` (and `OidcUserRequest`) provides you access to the associated `OAuth2AccessToken`, which is very useful in the cases where the _delegator_ needs to fetch authority information from a protected resource before it can map the custom authorities for the user.

The following example shows how to implement and configure a delegation-based strategy using an OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.oidcUserService(this.oidcUserService())
					...
	}

	private OAuth2UserService<OidcUserRequest, OidcUser> oidcUserService() {
		final OidcUserService delegate = new OidcUserService();

		return (userRequest) -> {
			// Delegate to the default implementation for loading a user
			OidcUser oidcUser = delegate.loadUser(userRequest);

			OAuth2AccessToken accessToken = userRequest.getAccessToken();
			Set<GrantedAuthority> mappedAuthorities = new HashSet<>();

			// TODO
			// 1) Fetch the authority information from the protected resource using accessToken
			// 2) Map the authority information to one or more GrantedAuthority's and add it to mappedAuthorities

			// 3) Create a copy of oidcUser but use the mappedAuthorities instead
			oidcUser = new DefaultOidcUser(mappedAuthorities, oidcUser.getIdToken(), oidcUser.getUserInfo());

			return oidcUser;
		};
	}
}
----


[[oauth2login-advanced-custom-user]]
==== Configuring a Custom OAuth2User

`CustomUserTypesOAuth2UserService` is an implementation of an `OAuth2UserService` that provides support for custom `OAuth2User` types.

If the default implementation (`DefaultOAuth2User`) does not suit your needs, you can define your own implementation of `OAuth2User`.

The following code demonstrates how you would register a custom `OAuth2User` type for GitHub:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.customUserType(GitHubOAuth2User.class, "github")
					...
	}
}
----

The following code shows an example of a custom `OAuth2User` type for GitHub:

[source,java]
----
public class GitHubOAuth2User implements OAuth2User {
	private List<GrantedAuthority> authorities =
		AuthorityUtils.createAuthorityList("ROLE_USER");
	private Map<String, Object> attributes;
	private String id;
	private String name;
	private String login;
	private String email;

	@Override
	public Collection<? extends GrantedAuthority> getAuthorities() {
		return this.authorities;
	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, Object> getAttributes() {
		if (this.attributes == null) {
			this.attributes = new HashMap<>();
			this.attributes.put("id", this.getId());
			this.attributes.put("name", this.getName());
			this.attributes.put("login", this.getLogin());
			this.attributes.put("email", this.getEmail());
		}
		return attributes;
	}

	public String getId() {
		return this.id;
	}

	public void setId(String id) {
		this.id = id;
	}

	@Override
	public String getName() {
		return this.name;
	}

	public void setName(String name) {
		this.name = name;
	}

	public String getLogin() {
		return this.login;
	}

	public void setLogin(String login) {
		this.login = login;
	}

	public String getEmail() {
		return this.email;
	}

	public void setEmail(String email) {
		this.email = email;
	}
}
----

[TIP]
`id`, `name`, `login`, and `email` are attributes returned in GitHub's UserInfo Response.
For detailed information returned from the UserInfo Endpoint, see the API documentation
for https://developer.github.com/v3/users/#get-the-authenticated-user["Get the authenticated user"].


[[oauth2login-advanced-oauth2-user-service]]
==== OAuth 2.0 UserService

`DefaultOAuth2UserService` is an implementation of an `OAuth2UserService` that supports standard OAuth 2.0 Provider's.

[NOTE]
`OAuth2UserService` obtains the user attributes of the end-user (the resource owner) from the UserInfo Endpoint (by using the access token granted to the client during the authorization flow) and returns an `AuthenticatedPrincipal` in the form of an `OAuth2User`.

`DefaultOAuth2UserService` uses a `RestOperations` when requesting the user attributes at the UserInfo Endpoint.

If you need to customize the pre-processing of the UserInfo Request, you can provide `DefaultOAuth2UserService.setRequestEntityConverter()` with a custom `Converter<OAuth2UserRequest, RequestEntity<?>>`.
The default implementation `OAuth2UserRequestEntityConverter` builds a `RequestEntity` representation of a UserInfo Request that sets the `OAuth2AccessToken` in the `Authorization` header by default.

On the other end, if you need to customize the post-handling of the UserInfo Response, you will need to provide `DefaultOAuth2UserService.setRestOperations()` with a custom configured `RestOperations`.
The default `RestOperations` is configured as follows:

[source,java]
----
RestTemplate restTemplate = new RestTemplate();
restTemplate.setErrorHandler(new OAuth2ErrorResponseErrorHandler());
----

`OAuth2ErrorResponseErrorHandler` is a `ResponseErrorHandler` that can handle an OAuth 2.0 Error (400 Bad Request).
It uses an `OAuth2ErrorHttpMessageConverter` for converting the OAuth 2.0 Error parameters to an `OAuth2Error`.

Whether you customize `DefaultOAuth2UserService` or provide your own implementation of `OAuth2UserService`, you'll need to configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.userService(this.oauth2UserService())
					...
	}

	private OAuth2UserService<OAuth2UserRequest, OAuth2User> oauth2UserService() {
		...
	}
}
----


[[oauth2login-advanced-oidc-user-service]]
==== OpenID Connect 1.0 UserService

`OidcUserService` is an implementation of an `OAuth2UserService` that supports OpenID Connect 1.0 Provider's.

The `OidcUserService` leverages the `DefaultOAuth2UserService` when requesting the user attributes at the UserInfo Endpoint.

If you need to customize the pre-processing of the UserInfo Request and/or the post-handling of the UserInfo Response, you will need to provide `OidcUserService.setOauth2UserService()` with a custom configured `DefaultOAuth2UserService`.

Whether you customize `OidcUserService` or provide your own implementation of `OAuth2UserService` for OpenID Connect 1.0 Provider's, you'll need to configure it as shown in the following example:

[source,java]
----
@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2LoginSecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

	@Override
	protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
		http
			.oauth2Login()
				.userInfoEndpoint()
					.oidcUserService(this.oidcUserService())
					...
	}

	private OAuth2UserService<OidcUserRequest, OidcUser> oidcUserService() {
		...
	}
}
----
