docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/architecture/delegating-filter-proxy.adoc, before:

[[servlet-delegatingfilterproxy]]
= DelegatingFilterProxy

Spring provides a `Filter` implementation named {security-api-url}org/springframework/web/filter/DelegatingFilterProxy.html/[`DelegatingFilterProxy`] that allows bridging between the Servlet container's lifecycle and Spring's `ApplicationContext`.
The Servlet container allows registering ``Filter``s using its own standards, but it is not aware of Spring defined Beans.
`DelegatingFilterProxy` can be registered via standard Servlet container mechanisms, but delegate all the work to a Spring Bean that implements `Filter`.

Here is a picture of how `DelegatingFilterProxy` fits into the <<servlet-filters-review,``Filter``s and the `FilterChain`>>.

.DelegatingFilterProxy
[[servlet-delegatingfilterproxy-figure]]
image::{figures}/delegatingfilterproxy.png[]

`DelegatingFilterProxy` looks up __Bean Filter~0~__ from the `ApplicationContext` and then invokes __Bean Filter~0~__.
The pseudo code of `DelegatingFilterProxy` can be seen below.

.`DelegatingFilterProxy` Pseudo Code
====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary",subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----
public void doFilter(ServletRequest request, ServletResponse response, FilterChain chain) {
	// Lazily get Filter that was registered as a Spring Bean
	// For the example in <<servlet-delegatingfilterproxy-figure>> `delegate` is an instance of __Bean Filter~0~__
	Filter delegate = getFilterBean(someBeanName);
	// delegate work to the Spring Bean
	delegate.doFilter(request, response);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary",subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----
fun doFilter(request: ServletRequest, response: ServletResponse, chain: FilterChain) {
	// Lazily get Filter that was registered as a Spring Bean
	// For the example in <<servlet-delegatingfilterproxy-figure>> `delegate` is an instance of __Bean Filter~0~__
	val delegate: Filter = getFilterBean(someBeanName)
	// delegate work to the Spring Bean
	delegate.doFilter(request, response)
}
----
====

Another benefit of `DelegatingFilterProxy` is that it allows delaying looking `Filter` bean instances.
This is important because the container needs to register the `Filter` instances before the container can startup.
However, Spring typically uses a `ContextLoaderListener` to load the Spring Beans which will not be done until after the `Filter` instances need to be registered.

Commit message:

Editing pass
I went through everything to get it to fit with Spring's docuemntation standard.
Lots of small changes for punctuation, grammar, usage, voice, and so on.
Also added some links, mostly to the API Javadoc.

docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/architecture/delegating-filter-proxy.adoc, after:

[[servlet-delegatingfilterproxy]]
= DelegatingFilterProxy

Spring provides a `Filter` implementation named {security-api-url}org/springframework/web/filter/DelegatingFilterProxy.html/[`DelegatingFilterProxy`] that allows bridging between the Servlet container's lifecycle and Spring's `ApplicationContext`.
The Servlet container allows registering `Filter` instances by using its own standards, but it is not aware of Spring-defined Beans.
You can register `DelegatingFilterProxy` through the standard Servlet container mechanisms but delegate all the work to a Spring Bean that implements `Filter`.

Here is a picture of how `DelegatingFilterProxy` fits into the <<servlet-filters-review,`Filter` instances and the `FilterChain`>>.

.DelegatingFilterProxy
[[servlet-delegatingfilterproxy-figure]]
image::{figures}/delegatingfilterproxy.png[]

`DelegatingFilterProxy` looks up __Bean Filter~0~__ from the `ApplicationContext` and then invokes __Bean Filter~0~__.
The following listing shows pseudo code of `DelegatingFilterProxy`:

// FIXME: Use real code from a real repository rather than pseudo code.

.`DelegatingFilterProxy` Pseudo Code
====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary",subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----
public void doFilter(ServletRequest request, ServletResponse response, FilterChain chain) {
	// Lazily get Filter that was registered as a Spring Bean
	// For the example in <<servlet-delegatingfilterproxy-figure>> `delegate` is an instance of __Bean Filter~0~__
	Filter delegate = getFilterBean(someBeanName);
	// delegate work to the Spring Bean
	delegate.doFilter(request, response);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary",subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----
fun doFilter(request: ServletRequest, response: ServletResponse, chain: FilterChain) {
	// Lazily get Filter that was registered as a Spring Bean
	// For the example in <<servlet-delegatingfilterproxy-figure>> `delegate` is an instance of __Bean Filter~0~__
	val delegate: Filter = getFilterBean(someBeanName)
	// delegate work to the Spring Bean
	delegate.doFilter(request, response)
}
----
====

Another benefit of `DelegatingFilterProxy` is that it allows delaying looking up `Filter` bean instances.
This is important because the container needs to register the `Filter` instances before the container can start up.
However, Spring typically uses a `ContextLoaderListener` to load the Spring Beans, which is not done until after the `Filter` instances need to be registered.
