docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/authentication/architecture/authentication-entry-point.adoc, before:

[[servlet-authentication-authenticationentrypoint]]
= Request Credentials with `AuthenticationEntryPoint`

{security-api-url}org/springframework/security/web/AuthenticationEntryPoint.html[`AuthenticationEntryPoint`] is used to send an HTTP response that requests credentials from a client.

Sometimes a client will proactively include credentials such as a username/password to request a resource.
In these cases, Spring Security does not need to provide an HTTP response that requests credentials from the client since they are already included.

In other cases, a client will make an unauthenticated request to a resource that they are not authorized to access.
In this case, an implementation of `AuthenticationEntryPoint` is used to request credentials from the client.
The `AuthenticationEntryPoint` implementation might perform a redirect to a log in page, respond with an https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/WWW-Authenticate[WWW-Authenticate] header, etc.

[[servlet-authentication-authenticationentrypoint-example]]
To better understand how `AuthenticationEntryPoint` is used, let's take a look at a concrete example.

* First, a user makes an unauthenticated request to a resource that is not authorized.
Spring Security's <<servlet-authorization-filtersecurityinterceptor,`FilterSecurityInterceptor`>> indicate that the unauthenticated request is __Denied__.
* Since the request is __Denied__, <<servlet-exceptiontranslationfilter,`ExceptionTranslationFilter`>> handles the `AccessDeniedException` by first saving the request (so that it can be requested again after successful authentication) and then redirecting to the log in page with the configured `AuthenticationEntryPoint`.
* The browser will then request the log in page.
Something within the application, must <<servlet-authentication-form-custom,render the log in page>>.

Commit message:

Add Request Credentials Figure
Closes gh-8030

docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/authentication/architecture/authentication-entry-point.adoc, after:

[[servlet-authentication-authenticationentrypoint]]
= Request Credentials with `AuthenticationEntryPoint`
:figures: images/servlet/authentication/architecture
:icondir: images/icons


{security-api-url}org/springframework/security/web/AuthenticationEntryPoint.html[`AuthenticationEntryPoint`] is used to send an HTTP response that requests credentials from a client.

Sometimes a client will proactively include credentials such as a username/password to request a resource.
In these cases, Spring Security does not need to provide an HTTP response that requests credentials from the client since they are already included.

In other cases, a client will make an unauthenticated request to a resource that they are not authorized to access.
In this case, an implementation of `AuthenticationEntryPoint` is used to request credentials from the client.
The `AuthenticationEntryPoint` implementation might perform a redirect to a log in page, respond with an https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/WWW-Authenticate[WWW-Authenticate] header, etc.

[[servlet-authentication-authenticationentrypoint-example]]
To better understand how `AuthenticationEntryPoint` is used, let's take a look at a concrete example using <<servlet-authentication-form,form based log in>>.
// FIXME: link to form based login

.AuthenticationEntryPoint with Form Log In
image::{figures}/request-credentials.png[]

The figure builds off our <<servlet-securityfilterchain,`SecurityFilterChain`>> diagram.

image:{icondir}/number_1.png[] First, a user makes an unauthenticated request to the resource `/private` for which it is not authorized.

image:{icondir}/number_2.png[] Spring Security's <<servlet-authorization-filtersecurityinterceptor,`FilterSecurityInterceptor`>> indicates that the unauthenticated request is __Denied__ by throwing an `AccessDeniedException`.

image:{icondir}/number_3.png[] Since the user is not authenticated, <<servlet-exceptiontranslationfilter,`ExceptionTranslationFilter`>> initiates __Start Authentication__ and sends a redirect to the log in page with the configured `AuthenticationEntryPoint`.

image:{icondir}/number_4.png[] The browser will then request the log in page that it was redirected to.

image:{icondir}/number_5.png[] Something within the application, must <<servlet-authentication-form-custom,render the log in page>>.
