docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/authentication/events.adoc, before:

[[servlet-events]]
== Authentication Events

For each authentication that succeeds or fails, a `AuthenticationSuccessEvent` or `AuthenticationFailureEvent` is fired, respectively.

To listen for these events, you must first publish an `AuthenticationEventPublisher`.
Spring Security's `DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher` will probably do fine:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Bean
public AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher
        (ApplicationEventPublisher applicationEventPublisher) {
    return new DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Bean
fun authenticationEventPublisher
        (applicationEventPublisher: ApplicationEventPublisher?): AuthenticationEventPublisher {
    return DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher)
}
----
====

Then, you can use Spring's `@EventListener` support:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Component
public class AuthenticationEvents {
	@EventListener
    public void onSuccess(AuthenticationSuccessEvent success) {
		// ...
    }

    @EventListener
    public void onFailure(AuthenticationFailureEvent failures) {
		// ...
    }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Component
class AuthenticationEvents {
    @EventListener
    fun onSuccess(success: AuthenticationSuccessEvent?) {
        // ...
    }

    @EventListener
    fun onFailure(failures: AbstractAuthenticationFailureEvent?) {
        // ...
    }
}
----
====

While similar to `AuthenticationSuccessHandler` and `AuthenticationFailureHandler`, these are nice in that they can be used independently from the servlet API.

=== Adding Exception Mappings

`DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher` by default will publish an `AuthenticationFailureEvent` for the following events:

|============
| Exception | Event
| `BadCredentialsException` | `AuthenticationFailureBadCredentialsEvent`
| `UsernameNotFoundException` | `AuthenticationFailureBadCredentialsEvent`
| `AccountExpiredException` | `AuthenticationFailureExpiredEvent`
| `ProviderNotFoundException` | `AuthenticationFailureProviderNotFoundEvent`
| `DisabledException` | `AuthenticationFailureDisabledEvent`
| `LockedException` | `AuthenticationFailureLockedEvent`
| `AuthenticationServiceException` | `AuthenticationFailureServiceExceptionEvent`
| `CredentialsExpiredException` | `AuthenticationFailureCredentialsExpiredEvent`
| `InvalidBearerTokenException` | `AuthenticationFailureBadCredentialsEvent`
|============

The publisher does an exact `Exception` match, which means that sub-classes of these exceptions won't also produce events.

To that end, you may want to supply additional mappings to the publisher via the `setAdditionalExceptionMappings` method:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Bean
public AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher
        (ApplicationEventPublisher applicationEventPublisher) {
    Map<Class<? extends AuthenticationException>,
        Class<? extends AuthenticationFailureEvent>> mapping =
            Collections.singletonMap(FooException.class, FooEvent.class);
    AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher =
        new DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher);
    authenticationEventPublisher.setAdditionalExceptionMappings(mapping);
    return authenticationEventPublisher;
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Bean
fun authenticationEventPublisher
        (applicationEventPublisher: ApplicationEventPublisher?): AuthenticationEventPublisher {
    val mapping: Map<Class<out AuthenticationException>, Class<out AbstractAuthenticationFailureEvent>> =
            mapOf(Pair(FooException::class.java, FooEvent::class.java))
    val authenticationEventPublisher = DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher)
    authenticationEventPublisher.setAdditionalExceptionMappings(mapping)
    return authenticationEventPublisher
}
----
====

=== Default Event

And, you can supply a catch-all event to fire in the case of any `AuthenticationException`:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Bean
public AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher
        (ApplicationEventPublisher applicationEventPublisher) {
    AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher =
        new DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher);
    authenticationEventPublisher.setDefaultAuthenticationFailureEvent
        (GenericAuthenticationFailureEvent.class);
    return authenticationEventPublisher;
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Bean
fun authenticationEventPublisher
        (applicationEventPublisher: ApplicationEventPublisher?): AuthenticationEventPublisher {
    val authenticationEventPublisher = DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher)
    authenticationEventPublisher.setDefaultAuthenticationFailureEvent(GenericAuthenticationFailureEvent::class.java)
    return authenticationEventPublisher
}
----
====

Commit message:

Editing pass
I went through everything to get it to fit with Spring's docuemntation standard.
Lots of small changes for punctuation, grammar, usage, voice, and so on.
Also added some links, mostly to the API Javadoc.

docs/manual/src/docs/asciidoc/_includes/servlet/authentication/events.adoc, after:

[[servlet-events]]
== Authentication Events

For each authentication that succeeds or fails, a `AuthenticationSuccessEvent` or `AuthenticationFailureEvent`, respectively, is fired.

To listen for these events, you must first publish an `AuthenticationEventPublisher`.
Spring Security's `DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher` works fine for this purpose:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Bean
public AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher
        (ApplicationEventPublisher applicationEventPublisher) {
    return new DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Bean
fun authenticationEventPublisher
        (applicationEventPublisher: ApplicationEventPublisher?): AuthenticationEventPublisher {
    return DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher)
}
----
====

Then you can use Spring's `@EventListener` support:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Component
public class AuthenticationEvents {
	@EventListener
    public void onSuccess(AuthenticationSuccessEvent success) {
		// ...
    }

    @EventListener
    public void onFailure(AuthenticationFailureEvent failures) {
		// ...
    }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Component
class AuthenticationEvents {
    @EventListener
    fun onSuccess(success: AuthenticationSuccessEvent?) {
        // ...
    }

    @EventListener
    fun onFailure(failures: AbstractAuthenticationFailureEvent?) {
        // ...
    }
}
----
====

While similar to `AuthenticationSuccessHandler` and `AuthenticationFailureHandler`, these are nice in that they can be used independently from the servlet API.

=== Adding Exception Mappings

By default, `DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher` publishes an `AuthenticationFailureEvent` for the following events:

|============
| Exception | Event
| `BadCredentialsException` | `AuthenticationFailureBadCredentialsEvent`
| `UsernameNotFoundException` | `AuthenticationFailureBadCredentialsEvent`
| `AccountExpiredException` | `AuthenticationFailureExpiredEvent`
| `ProviderNotFoundException` | `AuthenticationFailureProviderNotFoundEvent`
| `DisabledException` | `AuthenticationFailureDisabledEvent`
| `LockedException` | `AuthenticationFailureLockedEvent`
| `AuthenticationServiceException` | `AuthenticationFailureServiceExceptionEvent`
| `CredentialsExpiredException` | `AuthenticationFailureCredentialsExpiredEvent`
| `InvalidBearerTokenException` | `AuthenticationFailureBadCredentialsEvent`
|============

The publisher does an exact `Exception` match, which means that sub-classes of these exceptions do not also produce events.

To that end, you may want to supply additional mappings to the publisher through the `setAdditionalExceptionMappings` method:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Bean
public AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher
        (ApplicationEventPublisher applicationEventPublisher) {
    Map<Class<? extends AuthenticationException>,
        Class<? extends AuthenticationFailureEvent>> mapping =
            Collections.singletonMap(FooException.class, FooEvent.class);
    AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher =
        new DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher);
    authenticationEventPublisher.setAdditionalExceptionMappings(mapping);
    return authenticationEventPublisher;
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Bean
fun authenticationEventPublisher
        (applicationEventPublisher: ApplicationEventPublisher?): AuthenticationEventPublisher {
    val mapping: Map<Class<out AuthenticationException>, Class<out AbstractAuthenticationFailureEvent>> =
            mapOf(Pair(FooException::class.java, FooEvent::class.java))
    val authenticationEventPublisher = DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher)
    authenticationEventPublisher.setAdditionalExceptionMappings(mapping)
    return authenticationEventPublisher
}
----
====

=== Default Event

You can also supply a catch-all event to fire in the case of any `AuthenticationException`:

====
.Java
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
@Bean
public AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher
        (ApplicationEventPublisher applicationEventPublisher) {
    AuthenticationEventPublisher authenticationEventPublisher =
        new DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher);
    authenticationEventPublisher.setDefaultAuthenticationFailureEvent
        (GenericAuthenticationFailureEvent.class);
    return authenticationEventPublisher;
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
@Bean
fun authenticationEventPublisher
        (applicationEventPublisher: ApplicationEventPublisher?): AuthenticationEventPublisher {
    val authenticationEventPublisher = DefaultAuthenticationEventPublisher(applicationEventPublisher)
    authenticationEventPublisher.setDefaultAuthenticationFailureEvent(GenericAuthenticationFailureEvent::class.java)
    return authenticationEventPublisher
}
----
====
